The Spring family all began with the creation of the Spring Framework,
which was built largely in response to the complexity of developing
applications using Java's enterprise framework called J2EE,
it's now called Java EE,
and the Spring Framework aimed at removing the complexity and
helped to make things like web development and data access
easier for developers to implement.
It also aimed at reducing boilerplate code,
and if you're not familiar with what that is,
it's repetitive code that's often needed as part of the logic,
but tends to clutter the application and draw focus away from the main logic.
The Spring Framework is still heavily used today,
and it's the foundation upon which everything else is built.
The success of the Spring Framework led to the creation of several Spring
projects that were built on top of the Spring Framework,
but tailored to specific needs or domains.
For example,
the Spring Security project was created to remove the complexity
and challenges with securing a Java application,
and another project, like the Spring Data project,
was created to further simplify data access in Java applications.
The Spring Framework and Spring projects continued to evolve and thrive,
eventually resulting in the creation of a particularly
impactful project called Spring Boot.
Spring Boot was a real game changer.
It provided a new and drastically faster way of
building Spring-based applications.
Up until Spring Boot,
building a Spring-based application had always involved a lot of choice making,
configuration, and a cumbersome deployment model.
Spring Boot removed all of that by taking an opinionated view of
building Spring-based applications including sensible defaults for
library choices and configuration,
and adding smarts for auto-detecting and
auto-configuring other common configurations.
It also massively simplified the deployment process and made running a
Spring-based application as simple as running a single command.
Lastly came the Spring Cloud project.
Spring Cloud was built on top of Spring Boot and simplified the development of
applications that make use of distributed architectures,
such as microservice architectures,
and these type of architectures often have many
common patterns that are implemented,
such as service discovery and distributed configuration,
and Spring Cloud helped to make it easier for developers to
build applications that use those patterns.
Now that we've been introduced to the Spring family, let's take a look at why we would want to use it.